## 4.45

To begin with note that a complex integer is a complex number that can be written $`a+ib`$ where $`a,b\in\mathbb{I}`$. It is therefore easy to see that each member of the universal quantum gate set: $`I, H, S, \text{CNOT}`$ and Toffoli, can be written $`2^{-k/2}M`$ for integer $`k`$ and $`2\times2`$ complex integer matrix $`M`$.

Assume matrices $`U`$ and $`V`$ take the form $`2^{-k/2}M`$ and $`2^{-j/2}N`$ respectively, where $`k, j \in \mathbb{I}`$ and $`M`$ and $`N`$ are both $`2^n \times 2^n`$ complex integer matrices. $`UV = 2^{-(k+j)/2}MN`$ and, since the set of complex integers is closed under multiplication and addition*, $`MN`$ is also a $`2^n\times2^n`$ complex integer matrix.

Now suppose $`U`$ and $`V`$ are the same form as before but can have differing dimensions $`2^n \times 2^n`$ and $`2^m \times 2^m`$. $`U\otimes V = 2^{-(k+j)/2}M\otimes N`$ where $`M\otimes N`$ is a $`2^{m+n}\times 2^{m+n}`$ complex integer matrix.

Since any circuit composed of this universal gate set can be written as a product or tensor product of its matrices, it must also take the form described above.

However, if we replace the Toffoli gate with the $`T`$ gate, this property does not hold. The $`T`$ gate itself proves a sufficient counter example. Suppose:
```math
T = 
\begin{pmatrix}
1&0\\
0&1/\sqrt{2}+i/\sqrt{2}
\end{pmatrix}
=2^{-k/2}
\begin{pmatrix}
a&0\\
0&b+ib
\end{pmatrix}
```
for integers $`k, a`$ and $`b`$. Then we have $`2^{-k/2}a=1\rightarrow a=2^{k/2}\rightarrow k`$ is even, and $`2^{-k/2}b=1/\sqrt{2}\rightarrow b = 2^{(k-1)/2} \rightarrow k`$ is odd which is a contradiction.


\* Let $`y=a+ib`$ and $`z = c+id`$ be two complex integers.
```math
yz=zy = (ac - bd) + i(ad + bc)
``` 
and
```math
y+z=z+y=(a+b) + i(c+d)
```
both of which are complex integers.

